[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello and welcome to "Eat
Like you Love Yourself--
a Guide to Discovering your
Unique Formula for Thriving."
And today, I want
to introduce you
to the ancient living and
healing science of Ayurveda.
So perhaps you've already
heard of Ayurveda.
Perhaps you've heard
about it before.
Maybe you've even started to
incorporate some of its wisdom
into your living
and your eating.
Even if you haven't
heard anything about it,
you're going to gain
heaps of knowledge
and more importantly personal
power through understanding
some of its key principles.
And so what is Ayurveda?
Well, Ayurveda is a
5,000-year-old approach
to living and healing that
rests on some simple ideas.
The first of which
being that who we are
is a relationship between
what's going on outside of us
and what goes on inside of us.
We often forget that we
are just another part
of the natural world
that surrounds us.
And what that means is
that our environments
have a huge influence on
our health and wellness,
right down to the ways
that we think and make
our choices for everything from
foods to self-care to careers.
And what's also important,
particularly if you're
committed to thriving, is
understanding that who we are
is more than just
a series of parts.
The mind and body are
inextricably connected.
So what happens in the mind goes
on in the body and vise versa.
And so our approach to
achieving everything
from healthy, glowing skin
and hair to a healthy weight
to a cool and calm attitude
is going to be impacted by
and what we think as much as
by what we eat and how we move.
And so Ayurveda
gives us guidance
for how to prevent illness
and disease before it even
gets started by teaching us
simple, practical ways to live
like we love ourselves.
And that starts
with understanding
three additional ideas.
Number one, each of
us is 100% unique.
So Ayurveda isn't interested
or focused on one-size-fits-all
approaches to anything.
It understands that you are
an entirely different person
to anyone around you.
Your environment's different.
Your history's different.
Your family's different.
The things that you experience
and do on a daily basis
are completely different.
And what that means is
that illness and wellness
is going to be
achieved differently
for every single
person on the planet.
And if you can accept
your individuality,
then you can begin to
embrace your unique gifts
and your challenges.
And you can also
start to understand
that the responsibility
for discovering
your own unique formula for
thriving is entirely yours.
So number two is that we change
as the world around us changes.
In fact, the only thing
that's constant is change.
So the weather, the seasons,
the circumstances and situations
that we find and
put ourselves in,
these all have a subtle
and not-so-subtle impact
on who we are and who we can be.
And so we've got to tune
in to the impacts in order
to make the healthiest changes
for ourselves in the moment.
And so as you change
throughout the year
and throughout your
life, your needs change.
And so you've got
to pay attention
to what that change looks
like and what it feels like.
And you have to
be willing to keep
asking the question, how
can I eat and move and act
in a way that serves who I am
and who I need to be today?
And last, but
certainly not least,
is that Ayurveda wants you
to understand that wellness
is a beautiful conversation.
So everything that we
come into contact with
has a potential to support
or sabotage your health
and wellness.
And so the art of
living powerfully
is the art of developing this
give and take with your world,
of cultivating an experience
of living that feels more
like a dance than a tug of war.
And so finding a
balance that feels
like your own unique
experience of wellness
is a matter of
avoiding the extremes
and mastering the art
of counterbalance.
So it's countering frustration
with ease, countering confusion
with curiosity, impatience
with understanding,
and more practically, as you'll
see, it's using qualities
like lateness to
counter heaviness,
hot to counter cold and
vise versa, and moisture,
lubrication, and juiciness to
counter the common experience
of drying out as we age.
[MUSIC PLAYING]